.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2015, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\"
.Pp
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt FINDSWPS 1
.Os UNIX
.Sh NAME
.Nm findswps
.Nd Search for sweeps in a sequence of ray angles.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm findswps
.Op Fl i Ar scan_mode
.Op Fl a Ar sweep_angle
.Op Fl r Ar resolution
.Op Fl n Ar min_span
.Op Fl x Ar max_dev
.Op Fl v
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm findswps
searches standard input for sweeps - rays with a common azimuth or elevation.
Ray input consists of one text line for each ray of form
.Bd -literal -offset indent
Ray \fIazimuth\fR \fIelevation\fR [\fItrailing content ...\fR]

.Ed
Angles are measured in degrees. Ray azimuth and elevation are mandatory.
Trailing content is not used, but is copied to standard output. Lines
which do not match ray input are passed to standard output.
For each sweep encountered, standard output will provide a line of form:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
Sweep \fIindex\fR \fBPPI\fR|\fBRHI\fR \fBincr\fR|\fBdecr\fR \fBEl\fR|\fBAz\fR \fIsweep_angle\fR degrees

.Ed
This will be followed by the input lines for the first and last rays of the sweep,
prefixed with the word "Ray".
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width sweep_angle
.It Fl i Ar scan_mode
Specifies type of scan to look for.
.Ar scan_mode
can be 
.Qq PPI ,
.Qq RHI ,
or
.Qq all ,
for plan postion indicator, range height indicator, or any scan type,
respectively. Default is
.Qq all .
.It Fl a Ar sweep_angle
Requests sweeps with fixed sweep angle of
.Ar sweep_angle .
If
.Ar sweep_angle
is
.Qq all ,
or no sweep angle is requested, print all sweeps.
.It Fl r Ar resolution
Sets angular resolution. Angles that differ by less
than
.Ar resolution
degress are assumed to be the same angle.
.It Fl n Ar min_span
Sets minimum sweep size to
.Ar min_span .
Single value sets minimum span for PPI and RHI sweeps. Comma separated pair
of values, viz.
.Dv XX.X,YY.Y
sets minimum spans for PPI and RHI respectively.
.It Fl x Ar max_dev
Sets maximum variation about fixed angle. If rays
go beyond
.Ar max_dev
degrees of azimuth from a RHI azimuth, or max_dev degrees of elevation from a
PPI elevation, the sweep is terminated and, if input continues, a new sweep is
sought.
.It Fl v
print default values for options and exit
.El
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Gordon Carrie
.Mt dev0@trekix.net
