.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt PISA 1
.Os Unix
.Sh NAME
.Nm pisa
.Nd Create an SVG document with a Cartesian plot in it.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm pisa
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This script creates a Cartesian plot in a SVG element.
It reads plot parameters and data from standard
input. It writes SVG code for the plot to standard output.
Input must provide plot parameters first, followed by
.Nm start_svg: ,
followed by specifiers and data for plot elements, followed by
.Nm end_svg: .
.Sh PLOT PARAMETERS
Plot parameters must come first. They can be in any order. The following
parameters are mandatory.
.Bl -tag -width svg_width
.It Nm svg_width: Ar number
Width of the SVG element in pixels.
.It Nm x_left: Ar number
Cartesian x coordinate of the left edge of the plot.
.It Nm x_right: Ar number
Cartesian x coordinate of the right edge of the plot.
.It Nm y_bottom: Ar number
Cartesian y coordinate of the bottom edge of the plot.
.It Nm y_top: Ar number
Cartesian y coordinate of the top edge of the plot.
.El
The following parameters are optional.
.Bl -tag -width svg_width
.It Nm svg_height: Ar number
Height of the SVG element in pixels.
.It Nm top_mgn: Ar number
Size of margin between top of SVG element and top edge of plot, pixels.
.It Nm right_mgn: Ar number
Size of margin between right side of SVG element and right edge of plot, pixels.
.It Nm bottom_mgn: Ar number
Size of margin between bottom of SVG element and bottom edge of plot, pixels.
This is in addition to space given to x axis labels and title.
.It Nm left_mgn: Ar number
Size of margin between left side of SVG element and left edge of plot, pixels.
This is in addition to space given to y axis labels and title.
.It Nm font_sz: Ar number
Font size for axis labels, in pixels.
.It Nm x_title: Ar string
X axis label.
.Ar string
can have white space.
.It Nm y_title: Ar string
Y axis label.
.Ar string
can have white space.
.It Nm x_prx: Ar number
Number of significant digits in x axis labels.
.It Nm y_prx: Ar number
Number of significant digits in y axis labels.
.El
Parameter input ends with a line of form
.Nm start_svg: .
Pisa then validates the parameters and initializes the plot.
.Sh PLOT ELEMENTS
.Bl -tag -width svg_width
.It Nm polygon: Op attributes
Print a polygon - a set of connected points. The polygon element will have
the given attributes.
Each line of subsequent input should provide a coordinate
pair specifying the Cartesian abscissa and ordinate of a point. The polygon
ends with a line of form:
.Nm end_poly: .
If the document links to the optional
.Pa pisa.js
script, then
.Ar attributes
should include a
.Va class
attribute that places the polygon in class
.Va line .
This will ensure the polygon scales properly in interactive displays. See
.Xr pisa.js 1 .
.It Nm polyline: Op attributes
Print a polyline - a set of connected points. The polyline element will have
the given attributes.
Each line of subsequent input should provide a coordinate
pair specifying the Cartesian abscissa and ordinate of a point. The polyline
ends with a line of form:
.Nm end_poly: .
If the document links to the optional
.Pa pisa.js
script, then
.Ar attributes
should include a
.Va class
attribute that places the polyline in class
.Va line .
This will ensure the polyline scales properly in interactive displays. See
.Xr pisa.js 1 .
.It Nm circle: Ar x Ar y Op attributes
Draws a circle at Cartesian point
.Ar x
.Ar y
with
.Op attributes .
.Op attributes
should include
.Va r ,
specifying circle radius.
If the document links to the optional
.Pa pisa.js
script, then
.Ar attributes
should include a
.Va class
attribute that places the circle in class
.Va line .
This will ensure the circle scales properly in interactive displays. See
.Xr pisa.js 1 .
.It Nm ellipse: Ar x Ar y Op attributes
Draws an ellipse at Cartesian point
.Ar x
.Ar y
with
.Op attributes .
.Op attributes
should include
.Va rx
and
.Va ry
specifying ellipse radii.
If the document links to the optional
.Pa pisa.js
script, then
.Ar attributes
should include a
.Va class
attribute that places the ellipse in class
.Va line .
This will ensure the ellipse scales properly in interactive displays. See
.Xr pisa.js 1 .
.It Nm path: Op attributes
Draws a path with the given attributes.
Each line of subsequent input should present a path command,
.Nm M
.Nm L
.Nm C
.Nm S
.Nm Z
followed by a suitable number of Cartesian coordinate pairs. The path
ends with a line of form:
.Nm end_path: .
.El
A line containing
.Nm end_svg:
indicates no more input. Pisa finishes printing SVG code for the element and
exits.
.Sh STYLING
Foreground elements in the plot, such as text, tick marks, and borders, have
SVG class attribute
.Va pisa_fg .
Background elements in the plot have SVG class attribute
.Va pisa_bg .
.Sh SEE ALSO
Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) 1.1 (Second Edition) http://www.w3.org/TR/SVG11
.Xr pisa.js 1
.Sh ETYMOLOGY
.Nm pisa
is Choctaw for
.Ql view .
.Sh AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
