.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2016, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\"
.Pp
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt RAXPOL_MK_VOLS 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm raxpol_mk_vols
.Nd Find sweeps and volumes in a set of RaXPol moment files.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm raxpol_mk_vols
.Op Fl r Ar resoln
.Op Fl n Ar min_span
.Op Fl x Ar max_dev
.Op Fl y Ar swp_angl_resoln
.Op Fl j Ar jump
.Ar file
.Op Ar file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm raxpol_mk_vols
identifies sweeps and volumes in a set of RaXPol moment files. A sweep is a
set of rays with a common azimuth or elevation. It calls
.Nm findswps ,
which must be in the current path, to look for sweep patterns. A volume is a
cycle of sweeps.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width angle
.It Fl r Ar resoln
.Fl r
option for findswps. See
.Xr findswps 1 .
.It Fl n Ar min_span
.Fl n
option for findswps. See
.Xr findswps 1 .
.It Fl x Ar max_dev
.Fl x
option for findswps. See
.Xr findswps 1 .
.It Fl y Ar swp_angl_resoln
If a sweep angle differs from sweep angle at start of volume by less
than
.Ar swp_angl_resoln,
assume the sweep starts a new volume.
.It Fl j Ar jump
If sweep angle jumps by
.Ar jump ,
degrees, assume sweep starts a new volume.
.Sh OUTPUT FORMAT
Standard output looks like:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
\fBConfig\fP \fBresoln\fP=\fIdeg\fP \fBmin_span\fP=\fIppi_deg\fP,\fIrhi_deg\fP \fBmax_dev\fP=\fIdeg\fP \fBswp_angl_resoln\fP=\fIdeg\fP \fBjump\fP=\fIdeg\fP
\fBFile\fP \fIpath_to_data\fP/\fBRAXPOL\fP-\fIYYYYMMDD-HHMMSS\fP\fB.dat\fP
\fBVol\fP \fB0\fP \fBPPI\fPor\fBRHI\fP \fIYYYYMMDD-HHMMSS\fP
\fBSweep\fP \fB0\fP \fBPPI\fPor\fBRHI\fP \fBincr\fPor\fBdecr\fP \fBEl\fP \fInumber\fP \fBdegrees\fP \fBTime\fP \fIYYYY/MM/DD\fP \fIHH:MM:SS\fP \fBRays\fP \fIfirst\fP -> \fIlast\fP
\fBSweep\fP \fB1\fP \fBPPI\fPor\fBRHI\fP \fBincr\fPor\fBdecr\fP \fBEl\fP \fInumber\fP \fBdegrees\fP \fBTime\fP \fIYYYY/MM/DD\fP \fIHH:MM:SS\fP \fBRays\fP \fIfirst\fP -> \fIlast\fP
 ...
\fBVol\fP \fB1\fP \fBPPI\fPor\fBRHI\fP \fIYYYYMMDD-HHMMSS\fP
\fBSweep\fP \fB0\fP \fBPPI\fPor\fBRHI\fP \fBincr\fPor\fBdecr\fP \fBEl\fP \fInumber\fP \fBdegrees\fP \fBTime\fP \fIYYYY/MM/DD\fP \fIHH:MM:SS\fP \fBRays\fP \fIfirst\fP -> \fIlast\fP
 ...
\fBVol\fP \fB2\fP \fBPPI\fPor\fBRHI\fP \fIYYYYMMDD-HHMMSS\fP
 ...
\fBFile\fP \fIpath_to_data\fP/\fBRAXPOL\fP-\fIYYYYMMDD-HHMMSS\fP\fB.dat\fP
 ...

.Ed
\fBConfig\fP line records parameters, which can be default, or as specified on command line.
Each volume is identified by its start time, given as \fIYYYYMMDD-HHMMSS\fP.
\fBfirst\fP and \fBlast\fP refer to indeces or first and last rays for the sweep in the current file.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Ev RAXPOL_OLD_FMT
set and non-zero means RaXPol moment files must be old (2011) format.
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Gordon Carrie
.Mt dev0@trekix.net
