.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2015, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\"
.Pp
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt RAXPOL_RAY_HDRS 1
.Os UNIX
.Sh NAME
.Nm raxpol_ray_hdrs
.Nd Print RaXPol ray headers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm raxpol_ray_hdrs
.Op Fl V
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl h Ar angle
.Op Fl s Ar start
.Op Fl c Ar count
.Ar raxpol_file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm raxpol_ray_hdrs
prints ray headers from RaXPol moment file
.Ar raxpol_file .
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width angle
.It Fl V
Print version information and exit.
.It Fl a
requests abbreviated output.
.It Fl l
indicates
.Ar raxpol_file
uses legacy (2011) format.
.It Fl h Ar angle
sets radar heading to
.Ar angle ,
overriding GPS heading, which might impose spurious variations.
.It Fl s Ar start
specifies index of first ray to print. First ray in file has index 0.
.It Fl c Ar count
specifies number of rays to print.
.El
.Sh OUTPUT FORMAT
Default output starts with the file header, but not the first and last ray
headers, as described in
.Xr raxpol_file_hdr 1 .
Then for each ray, output has form:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
\fBray\fP \fIindex\fP
\fBtimestamp_seconds\fP \fIinteger\fP
\fBtimestamp_useconds\fP \fIinteger\fP
\fBtimestamp_cal\fP \fIYYYY/MM/DD HH:MM:SS.SS\fP
\fBradar_temperatures\fP \fItemp temp temp temp\fP
\fBinclinometer_roll\fP \fInumber\fP
\fBinclinometer_pitch\fP \fInumber\fP
\fBfuel_sensor\fP \fInumber\fP
\fBcpu_temperature\fP \fInumber\fP
\fBpedestal_scan_type\fP \fIcode\fP \fI(name)\fP
\fBtx_power\fP \fInumber\fP
\fBosc_lock\fP \fInumber\fP
\fBaz\fP \fIangle_degrees\fP
\fBel\fP \fIangle_degrees\fP
\fBaz_vel\fP \fInumber\fP
\fBelev_vel\fP \fInumber\fP
\fBaz_current\fP \fInumber\fP
\fBelev_current\fP \fInumber\fP
\fBvolume_count\fP \fIinteger\fP
\fBsweep_count\fP \fIinteger\fP
\fBflags\fP \fInumber\fP
\fBlat_ref\fP \fBN\fPor\fBS\fP
\fBlat\fP \fIlatitude_degrees\fP
\fBlon_ref\fP \fBW\fPor\fBE\fP
\fBlon\fP \fIlongitude_degrees\fP
\fBalt\fP \fIalitude_meters_asl\fP
\fBhdg_ref\fP \fBT\fPor\fBM\fP
\fBhdg\fP \fIdegrees\fP
\fBspeed\fP \fInumber\fP
\fBnmea_msg_gpgga\fP \fIstring\fP
\fButc_time_sec\fP \fIinteger\fP
\fButc_time_usec\fP \fIinteger\fP
\fBdata_type\fP \fIcode\fP
\fBdata_size\fP \fIinteger\fP
.Ed
With
.Fl a
option, each ray has one line of output of form:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
\fBray\fP \fIindex\fP \fIYYYY/MM/DD\fP \fIHH:MM:SS.SS\fP \fBlon\fP \fIdeg\fP \fBlat\fP \fIdeg\fP \fBaz\fP \fIdeg\fP \fBel\fP \fIdeg\fP
.Ed
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Ev RAXPOL_OLD_FMT
set and non-zero is equivalent to
.Fl l .
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Gordon Carrie
.Mt dev0@trekix.net
