.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2016, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\"
.Pp
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt RAXPOL_DAT 1
.Os UNIX
.Sh NAME
.Nm raxpol_dat
.Nd Print ray data from a RaXPol moment file to standard output.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm raxpol_dat
.Op Fl V
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl b
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl r
.Op Fl h Ar angle
.Op Fl m Ar moment_name,moment_name,...
.Op Fl s Ar index
.Op Fl c Ar count
.Op Ar raxpol_file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This application prints ray data from a RaXPol moment file. If
.Ar raxpol_file
is absent or
.Ql - ,
read standard input.
.Pp
The following options are recognized:
.Bl -tag -width DS
.It Fl V
Print version information and exit.
.It Fl r
Print ray headers with the data. Default is to just print ray data.
.It Fl b
Send native memory encoded output instead of ASCII.
.It Fl l
Input file is "old" (2011) format.
.It Fl h
Sets heading, overriding GPS heading in ray headers.
.It Fl m Ar moment_name,moment_name,...
Print data only for moments named in comma separated list.
Each
.Ar moment_name
must be one of
.Bd -literal -offset indent
\fBDBMHC\fP \fBDBMVC\fP \fBDBZ\fP \fBDBZ1\fP \fBVEL\fP \fBZDR\fP \fBPHIDP\fP \fBRHOHV\fP \fBSTD\fP \fBSNRHC\fP \fBSNRVC\fP.

.Ed
Default is to print all moments.
.It Fl s Ar index
Index of first ray to write. First ray is 0.
.It Fl c Ar count
Number of rays to print. Default is to print all rays.
.El
.Sh OUTPUT FORMAT
Default output is ASCII. For each ray, output is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
  ray_header			(optional)
  moment_name value value ...
  moment_name value value ...
  ...
.Ed
Ray header format is described in
.Xr raxpol_ray_hdrs 1 .
With
.Fl b
option, all output uses native memory encoding. Ray headers, if requested, are
given as anonymous values in the same order as ASCII output. Then for each ray
and moment, process prints the number of bytes in the moment name, followed by
the moment name, followed by data values for all gates. File header provides
the number of gates.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
Non-zero
.Ev RAXPOL_OLD_FMT
environment variable is same as
.Fl l .
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Gordon Carrie
.Mt dev0@trekix.net
