.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2015, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\"
.Pp
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt raxpol_sweep_svg 1
.Os UNIX
.Sh NAME
.Nm raxpol_sweep_svg
.Nd Make a SVG file for a RaXPol sweeps
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm raxpol_mk_vols
\>
.Pa vol_list
.Nm raxpol_sweep_svg
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl b Ar bounds
.Op Fl w Ar pixels
.Op Fl z Ar pixels
.Op Fl l Ar pixels
.Op Fl m Ar margins
.Op Fl c Ar color_file
.Op Fl r Ar root_path
.Op Fl o Ar output_path
.Ar data_type
.Ar sweep_angle
.Ar vol_id
\< vol_list
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This application makes a Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) image for data
type
.Ar data_type
for the sweep angle nearest
.Ar sweep_angle
in RaXPol volume
.Ar vol_id .
It reads volume and sweep information from
.Nm raxpol_mk_vols
output, which must be given in standard input.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width DS
.It Fl n
Noclobber. If the output file exists, print its name and exit.
.It Fl p
Print name of default output .svg file and exit. Do not create the .svg file.
.It Fl b Ar x_min=value,x_max=value,y_min=value,y_max=value
Limits of plot in plot coordinates (not pixels) for given
scan mode. Does not have to give all values. For values not
given, default is used. Units are meters.
.It Fl w Ar width
Document width, pixels
.It Fl z Ar height
Font size, pixels
.It Fl l Ar width
Width of color cells in legend, pixels
.It Fl m Ar top=pixels,left=pixels
Margins around plot area. Right and bottom margins are determined from font
and legend sizes.
.It Fl c Ar color_file
Color table file, which must contain output from
.Nm raster_clrs ,
or the
.Nm raster_clrs
format described in
.Xr raster_clrs 1 .
If absent,
.Nm raxpol_sweep_svg
will look for a file based on
.Ar data_type .
For example, if
.Ar data_type
is DBZ,
.Nm raxpol_sweep_svg
looks for a file named
.Pa DBZ.clrs
in the directory given by the
.Ev RAXPOL_COLOR_DIR
environment variable, if set. If not, it looks for
.Pa DBZ.clrs
in installation directory
.Pa /usr/local/share/raxpol/colors .
At installation,
.Nm make
might have replaced
.Pa /usr/local
with the value given as
.Va PREFIX .
.It Fl r Ar root_path
root directory, prepended to relative paths in standard input. Use if the
RaXPol moment file arguments to
.Nm raxpol_mk_vols
were relative to a different directory from current working directory.
.It Fl o Ar output_path
Name of output file, overrides default. If "-", send SVG to standard output.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width RAXPOL_GEOG_PROJX
.It Ev RAXPOL_COLOR_DIR
specifies directory with color files. See discussion of
.Fl c
option.
.It Ev RAXPOL_GEOG_PROJ
specifies geographic projection in format readable to
.Nm geog
.Ar lonlat_to_xy
command. See
.Xr geog 1.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr raxpol_mk_vols 1
.Xr raxpol_swps_svg 1
.Xr raster_clrs 1
.Xr pisa 1
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Gordon Carrie
.Ad dev0@trekix.net
